---
title: Gear That I Use
layout: contentbase
---
Gear That I Use
======

## Hardware
My daily drivers include the [One Plus 6 64 GB](https://www.oneplus.com/6) and
the [Bose NC
700](https://www.bose.com/en_us/products/headphones/noise_cancelling_headphones/noise-cancelling-headphones-700.html#v=noise_cancelling_headphones_700_black).
The One Plus has served me incredibly well. It's survived accidental dips in my
bathtub and almost getting grilled even. Battery life's been on par too over the
last two years, it only really suffers in the camera department.

For my serious work I use the [Razer Blade Stealth Late
2019](https://www.pcmag.com/reviews/razer-blade-stealth-13-late-2019?test_uuid=03VgQESfXzdGbpM9u5nO4tq&test_variant=a)
in conjunction with the [Razer Core
X](https://www.razer.com/gaming-egpus/Razer-Core-X/RC21-01310100-R3U1) which
acts as my all-in-one dock. My setup lacks a few key ports, most notably an
ethernet and an HDMI port which is easily supplemented by an [Anker 5-in-1 USB-C
Adapter
(A8338)](https://www.anker.com/store/powerexpand-5-in-1-usb-c-ethernet-hub/A83380A1).
The switch to ethernet has been a relatively recent one after realizing the
tradeoff in packet-loss and latency most people forgo for convenience. It didn't
bother me as much either until I started playing Valorant with my friends
halfway across the world where every millisecond finally mattered.

On the I/O side, I currently use a [Razer Blackwidow
Ultimate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uH8fN1kYhkY) keyboard from 2012 which
has more than outlived its usefulness along with a [SteelSeries Rival 310
mouse](https://steelseries.com/gaming-mice/rival-310) with a run of the mill
SteelSeries mousepad. In an attempt to prevent and future RSI-related injuries,
I made the plunge and decided to invest in my first hobbyist mechanical
keyboard, the [ZSA Moonlander Mark I](https://www.zsa.io/moonlander/). It's a
little on the pricey side but after spending a good summer with the Nintendo
Switch I see the allure behind having a split input mechanism. It's just so much more natural once you get over the learning
curve. For my display, I'm running the [Dell S2319H S Series Monitor 23"
display](https://www.dell.com/en-us/shop/dell-23-monitor-s2319h/apd/210-aoxy/monitors-monitor-accessories)
that's hooked to my [Logitech Z313 2.1
speakers](https://www.logitech.com/en-us/product/speaker-system-z313).

All of this is plugged into a [smart
plug](https://www.amazon.com/Amazon-Smart-Plug-works-Alexa/dp/B01MZEEFNX/ref=sr_1_3?dchild=1&keywords=smart+plug&qid=1601741166&s=amazon-devices&sr=1-3)
synced to a [2nd generation Amazon
Echo](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0749WVS7J/ref=ods_ac_dp_dr_ps) whose
only job is to tell me the weather and to power off my devices when I'm going to
bed. This is the one part of my setup I could definitely live without but I'd
received the Echo as a gift from the team I'd worked with at Amazon so it's
nice to have around.

I've got an old [Lenovo
Y510p](https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/laptops/lenovo/y-series/y510p/) that I've
got [FreeNAS](https://www.freenas.org/) running on that acts as my NAS storage
for my main computer.

As for analog tools, I'm a big fan of the [Uni-ball vision
pens](https://uniballco.com/vision-1/) and any standard moleskin journal. I'm
rocking the [Timbuk2 Men's The Authority
Pack](https://www.timbuk2.com/products/1815-authority-laptop-backpack) to store
my gear while on the go.

## Software
I'm primarily a Windows user because the value proposition of owning a Mac with
the hardware that it comes with currently doesn't appeal to me. This opinion
might change though when Apple does start coming out with its own ARM-based
silicon for its products.

I do most of my writing and programming in [VS
Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Powershell is my main shell of choice.
With a whole bunch of customization, I've comfortably been able to call it home.
Check out my [dotfiles](https://github.com/adyshake/dotfiles-windows) for a
little inspiration.

I use two package managers, [Scoop](https://scoop.sh/) for just command-line
tools and [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) for applications that need to be
installed traditionally.

