---
title: What I'm doing now - January 2019
layout: contentbase
---
What I'm doing now - January 2019
======

{: align="middle"}
![srilanka]

{: align="middle" style="font-size:12px"}
_A wild Adnan in Sri Lanka drinking tea and reading a Hindi dictionary?_

I'm currently living in Pune, India, trying to lead an _exciting_ yet structured
and habit-based life. 

I just got accepted into the computer science program at the University of Texas
at Dallas for my master's. My semester begins in the fall of 2019, so I've got
quite some time on my hands to prepare for what's to come.

I also just returned from my first _(self-funded)_ international trip to Sri
Lanka. Being away from home for those two weeks reminded me how being location
independent has always been an overarching goal of mine. With over two years of
work experience, I think it's finally time to brave the freelance market.

Over the last year and a half, I've been trying to back off from my phone and
the internet as much as I can. I question the utility of social networks every
day, the signal to noise ratio is just too low. The hardest part of getting out
of the Facebook ecosystem for me would be Instagram (and WhatsApp, but it's
still far more useful than what IG offers). I'm planning--yet another--a digital
detox for 30 days. As I mentioned, this isn't my first rodeo, I've tried
multiple variations of the detox and failed. Almost always because I promise
myself that I will use social networks as tools and not a way to be content with
boredom. You'd be surprised as to how a decent UX job and red notifications can
hook you back in so quickly. Damn you variable rewards.

The things I want to focus on for this year are:
* Break into the freelance industry
* Read 2 books a month
* Quit social media for good this time
* Drop to 10% body fat

[srilanka]: /images/now-2019-january.jpg
{: width="70%"}