---
layout: post
title: Livin' like it's 1995
description: TBD
featured: false
---

When was the last you were genuinely bored? No, I mean really bored. To the point
you literally had nothing to do. No phone, no internet, nothing. I can think of
two recent instances in my life when this happened. One was when I was stranded at
a bus stop at university during grad school when my phone died. I had nothing but
my notebooks and a pen. I just began writing what I wanted to get done that
year. I wrote everything that was floating around in my head and I
just felt lighter as a result. The second time was during the 2021 Texas freeze. When
my four roommates and I (plus one refugee) were camped up at our house with no
means of entertaining ourselves but with each other, in front of a fire kept alive
by Amazon boxes (that we were too lazy to throw out). During the 4 days that the
freeze lasted, we spent entire days lounging together in the living room,
actually living for a change and not cooped up on the laptop in each of our
rooms. We shared stories, jokes and got to know each other so much more. We all
 knew this was temporary though, any time the power would come back on for
a while, we'd all rush back into our rooms and charge our devices and check up
on messages.

Circumstances like that are rare but I want to create more such opportunities to
be bored more. The following took nearly a year to figure out what works
for me, and to slowly wean off of every piece of technology/media that I thought
I couldn't live without.

Let's start with the phone since that's what's always in your pocket.

## Rules for your phone

1. I don't carry my phone into the bedroom
    * The bedroom carries a purpose this way. When you step inside, your
      intention should be to sleep, not to consume media, or text. Creating
      these separations is important and to some degree, I even feel like it
      conditions you to feel sleepy when you lie down.
1. I don't pick up my phone in the morning till I'm done getting ready (setting
   the bed, showering, making breakfast, etc)
   * There are constants that need to happen in the morning regardless of what
     messages/emails I receive. Keep those 30-40 minutes free of any new
     information in the morning.
1. I have notifications disabled for almost all apps except a few (WhatsApp,
   banking, calls, Ubers)
   * Any notification that's not time-sensitive is batched and delivered at 8 am
     and 6:30 pm. I don't need to immediately read emails, or check out who
     updated what Splitwise transaction.
1. I don't have any social media apps or YouTube installed
   * This should go without saying that these services prey on your attention
     and promote mindless consumption of content. A case can be made for YouTube
     that it's not as toxic as social media in general. But I've found that
     removing YouTube from my life has also had profound effects in terms of the
     media I consume now. I used to look for the perfect 15-minute video to keep
     my mind occupied while I'd have my meal, but these days a whole TV show
     would be too long and there isn't anything else that's short, so I just
     skip out on watching anything. Being alone with your thoughts isn't bad.
     More on this at the end of the article.
1. I don't have any music on my phone
   * The phone should be a tool, not a device for entertainment. Keeping this
     separation helps since you have your phone with you everywhere. I do listen to
     music, but not on my phone anymore. I picked up an old 2012 iPod Nano that
     I take with me whenever I want to listen to music. This has a couple of
     benefits,
       * When I go to the gym, I take my iPod and not my phone. I get an hour's
         worth of disconnection that I find very valuable.
       * When I'm on the train, or doing something monotonous, I find myself
         reaching for music, in times like this, I don't have my iPod on me and
         so I'm reminded that this is an opportunity to stay bored. More on
         being bored later.
1. I keep my home screen very minimal, with only a few apps on the main screen
   * Your environment primes you for behavior. Keep apps with minimal variable
     rewards on the home screen. Phone, Messages, WhatsApp, Camera, Notes,
     Photos. The phone is a tool not a device for entertainment.
1. I utilize focus modes for work and for bedtime.
   * I can't fully block out text notifications altogether but I let certain
     apps ping me for certain periods thorughout the day. 9-5 on weekdays is
     Slack and Chime only. 5-12, all texting apps are allowed except work apps.
     12-9 no apps are allowed to buzz me.
1. I don't use subscription services
    * This is a bit of a lie, I do use Backblaze for full computer backups but
      that's it. What I mean is I don't have Spotify, Google Photos, Amazon
      Prime. Spotify promotes endless consumption of music. Google Photos
      promotes taking unlimited photos without care for composition or selecting
      the best shot and discarding the rest. You also have easy access to
      earlier memories, which may be a good thing or a bad thing depending on
      how your life is right now. Amazon Prime promotes easy consumption of
      online shopping. It's convenient, yes, but it also means you don't head
      outside to shop anymore, wander around, and compare prices at different
      vendors. Plus if you want to order something you can still do it through
      Amazon anyway, the delivery just takes a tad bit longer.

## Rules for designing your house

1. I don't have a WFH setup anymore
  * Reaffirms the purpose that the home desk is not meant for work. There isn't a
    monitor or keyboard anymore either. I just keep my laptop on there. This
    helps in two ways, without a good setup, I'm forced to go to the office. I
    get to mingle with coworkers and get all my work done there. I leave the
    office when I'm done with what I set out to do that day. This way I don't
    carry work back home with me and I don't mix home chores with my work time.
    The second benefit is that the desk is clear of any devices and usually just
    contains my notepad or some books that I'm reading.
1. I use a soft board with various things stuck on it
  * Having no monitor on the desk means I'm staring at a blank wall all the time.
    This was remedied with a soft board where I put a whole bunch of things. Most
    importantly, my calendar, some photos, and other reminders, and just some
    pinterest-y photos for apartment furnishing ideas.
1. I use a physical alarm clock
  * Similar reasons to the 'I don't carry my phone into the bedroom' point above.
1. I use a physical notepad on my desk
  * A physical notepad has way more flexibility than any app would. I don't
    carry this notepad with me everywhere since most of my chores listed on it are
    meant to be done at home. Similarly, I have a notepad I store at the office
    for work tasks. There are clear separations of what needs to be done where and
    I don't mix them up. When something comes to mind, I quickly write it down
    without opening my phone and getting distracted by another application.
1. I use a paper calendar
  * When I'm sitting at my desk, I like seeing my entire month planned out.
    Sometimes I'll see blank spots on there that I'd like to fill out. I reach
    out to friends and try to set things up. It also serves as a reminder of
    things I've done over the entire month.
1. I use an hourglass for my Pomodoro timer
  * If I'm struggling to get started with something, I just flip my hourglass
    that serves as my Pomodoro timer. When the hour's up, I take a break.
1. I track my expenses using pen and paper
  * I've tried a bunch of expense tracking apps, and I either don't like them
    due to a lack of flexibility or concerns about privacy. Even though I know my
    bank already knows what I'm spending on, I'd rather not expose that
    information to third parties as well. There's an added benefit of tallying
    up your expenses at the end of the month and slowly pouring over your expenses.
1. I track my weight using a pen and paper in the bathroom
  * Every morning, I stand on the scale in my bathroom and mark my weight on a
   calendar right in front of me. Again, I avoid apps here. There's only one time 
   I enter my weight and that's when I step on the scale, and the only time I 
   ponder about whether my diet is going according to plan is when I step off
   the scale. I don't need this information on my phone with me synced across
   all my devices everywhere.

## Rules for designing your computer

1. I permanently hide the Mac dock
  * Takes up a bunch of screen real estate and encourages multi-tasking. 
1. I use windows full-screened.
  * Most apps tend to be maximized since you really need to be pouring your
    attention on one thing at a time. Also prevents the urge to multitask.
    If you're waiting on a long build, just take a deep breath. Don't try to
    fill in every minute while you're working and just appreciate the break. Try
    to engage your default mode of thinking, be bored.
1. I don't use browser tabs
   * I like to treat every web page as a physical page. This paradigm makes
     sense to me because if the virtual desktop is analogous to your physical
     desktop, would you have 100s of pages scattered all over your desk?
     Probably not. Your attention is usually focused on one thing that at max
     probably requires 1 to 3 open pages.
     Having it set up this way also prevents tab hoarding since it just becomes
     incredibly hard to manage that mess without tabs. When you're done with a
     page, just close it.
1. I don't have any window borders for my web browser
  * Each web page is just the content itself, there are no visible tabs, no
    close or maximize buttons, and no address bar. I can always pull up the address
    bar by hitting Command + L. I just find the interface cleaner this way, and
    again the focus should be on the content itself and not the controls.
1. I use Windows-like AltTab
  * To manage all of these 'pages', the standard Alt-Tab switcher for Mac OS is
    god awful. I use [AltTab](https://alt-tab-macos.netlify.app/) which
    replicates Windows' behavior and has thumbnails for every open window.
1. I hide all link styling for links contained in paragraphs
  * When I'm reading long-form content, I don't want to spawn more web pages. I
    want to finish what I started. Removing link styling for all links within a
    paragraph kills that urge for me and also results in a much cleaner web
    browsing experience. The links are still clickable and navigation links
    outside of paragraphs are unaffected.
    Have a look at these screenshots to see what I mean

    {: align="middle"}
    ![before_link_styling]

    {: align="middle" style="font-size:12px"}
    _Default browsing experience_

    {: align="middle"}
    ![after_link_styling]

    {: align="middle" style="font-size:12px"}
    _Removing all paragraph link styling_

1. I block YouTube, HackerNews, Reddit, and social media through my hosts file and
   piHole
  * Most of these services are time sinks without much real value. HackerNews is
    an exception, but it's still on this list because I don't want to use the
    internet to satiate boredom.


## Rules for work

1. No email after 10 am
  * Read your email once, and then shut it down. Set a focused block of time to
    respond to everybody and then do it again the next day. This has the added
    benefit of making your computer snappier if work provides you with a laptop
    with only 8 gigs of RAM.
1. No Slack, no Chime, no Instant Messaging
  * I keep Slack and Chime   muted, and I quit them for most of the day. They
    only serve to interrupt. But it's important to reply as well, I just don't
    do it immediately. I finish a task, I have some free time, and I reply to
    messages.
1. One issue at a time
  * Same as what I do at home, I keep a notepad and I tackle **one issue** at a
    time. Do not try to do multiple things at once, the overhead of context
    switching is even higher if you're a knowledge worker. If you're blocked,
    take a walk for 5 minutes, have a chat with someone, go drink some water,
    stretch. 


## Rules for life

1. No news
  * Repeat after me. You don't need the news. Most news only serves to agitate.
    Consume actionable news, and that sort of news always tends to be local.
    Having said that, I still don't consume any. The 24 hour news cycle sets perverse
    incentives to report **anything** that will get eyeballs. It serves to
    enrage and divide. Be smart, go outside, get a sense of your own
    surroundings, talk to people. 
    If you're afraid that you will miss out on major events, trust me you won't.
    You have friends that will invariably still consume the news. And if it's
    really important, it usually comes up in conversation. If it's irrelevant, it
    probably won't.

The phone is meant to be a tool for a specific purpose. When it becomes a jack
of all trades, you are tied to it. Your dependence on this one tool grows.
Living without it becomes painful. My stance on the phone is that it should do
the things a phone should do along with a couple of other convenient benefits.
Its primary purpose is to communicate with people (texts and calls), navigate,
take quick photos, scan awful QR codes at restaurants and pull up emails for reservations.

Keep physical single-purpose devices. They serve one purpose and that's it. They are
resilient, they don't need upgrades and they don't serve to distract.

There are two things I want you to take away from this. I want to you remember
that the medium is the message and that boredom is important. Boredom is both a
warning that we're not doing what we want to be doing and a push that motivates
us to switch goals and projects. Watch [Veritasium's video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKPwKFigF8U)
for more context on this. If you set your life up in the way that I've described, I
can guarantee that you'll find pockets of time where you'll be bored.
Watch as your mind wanders and you come up with things to do that you would
probably never consider doing if you had your way otherwise. Tasks that you've
been putting off for the longest time, like reorganizing your closet, or picking
up that coffee table book that you've never touched or trying to learn
how to solve a rubicks cube. There are endless ways of entertaining yourself
that doesn't involve the internet.
Stay offline as much as possible, simmer the information that's already in your
head and remember, being bored is okay.

[before_link_styling]:/images/before_link_styling.png
{:width="80%"}

[after_link_styling]:/images/after_link_styling.png
{:width="80%"}